JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: What
the death
of Justice Antonin Scalia means
for the future
of the Supreme Court, and the
race for the
White House. Also ahead, we look
at Justice
Scalia's three-decade legacy on
the court.
And why the residents of Freddie
Gray's Baltimore
neighborhood don't trust the
city's big hospitals.
DR. JAY PERMAN, President,
University of Maryland,
Baltimore: It takes a long time,
I think,
for people to understand that
the days of
hidden experimentation are over.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Deadly attacks
blasted hospitals
and schools across Northern
Syria today, killing
nearly 50 civilians, many of
them children.
It signaled again there's no end
in sight
for the war, despite plans for a
temporary
cease-fire.
Activists blamed Russian
airstrikes, and the
White House condemned the
attacks. We will
get a detailed account later in
the program.
Amid tensions across the Middle
East, Saudi
Arabia today launched its
largest war games
ever. The drills involve 20
mostly Arab and
African countries. The Saudis
are already
fighting Shiite rebels in Yemen,
and they
have offered to help fight the
Islamic State
group in Syria.
In Mexico, Pope Francis praised
the country's
indigenous people and denounced
their exploitation
today. The first Latin American
pontiff traveled
to San Cristobal de las Casas in
Chiapas state
midway through his five-day
visit. Francis
celebrated mass in three
languages native
to the region before a crowd of
thousands.
And he condemned centuries of
ill treatment
of Mexico's Indians.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): On many occasions,
in a systematic
and organized way, your people
have been misunderstood
and excluded from society. Some
have considered
your values, culture and
traditions to be
inferior. Others, intoxicated by
power, money
and market trends, have stolen
your lands
or contaminated them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The pope's foray
into Southern
Mexico is aimed in part at
boosting the Catholic
faith in a region where
Protestant denominations
have made inroads.
Four American journalists are in
custody in
Bahrain after being detained on
Sunday. Police
say they were rounded up in the
Shiite community
of Sitra, having entered the
country illegally.
It happened during protests that
marked a
Shiite uprising in the Arab
spring of 2011.
The family of one of the
Americans denies
that they did anything illegal.
Steelworkers from across Europe
converged
on Brussels today to protest
imports of cheap
steel from China. Thousands
carried flags
and banners warning the European
Union not
to grant China market economy
status. They
said that would let Beijing
flood the market
with even more steel.
MAN: We are protesting because
we want fair
competition for the steel
industry in Europe.
Nowadays, huge amounts of steel
are being
brought in, imported in Europe
from China,
and we cannot compete with this,
because the
prices that are now paid in
Europe are very
low.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The European
steel industry
accuses China of using illegal
export subsidies
to sell products at below
production cost.
And here in the U.S., Wall
Street was closed
for the President's Day holiday,
but world
markets shot higher. The rally
was led by
stocks in Japan and hopes for
more stimulus
in Europe. Investors also
welcomed news that
China's Central Bank has fixed
the value of
the Chinese currency at a
stronger rate.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the grueling
battle over the next Supreme
Court nominee
takes shape in Congress and on
the campaign
trail; a hospital targeted in
Syria, just
days after a cease-fire; plus,
efforts to
reverse grim health outcomes in
one of the
nation's poorest cities.
The death of Justice Antonin
Scalia not only
complicates the upcoming Supreme
Court term,
but also has enormous
ramifications on the
political landscape. The Senate
is ramping
up for a battle of epic
proportions, as President
Obama plans to fulfill his
constitutional
obligation and nominate someone
to the court.
To help us understand what is
next, we are
joined by our regular
court-watcher, Marcia
Coyle, chief Washington
correspondent for
"The National Law Journal," and
John Stanton.
He's Washington bureau chief for
BuzzFeed.
And we welcome you both to the
program.
Marcia, let me start with,
before we got to
what we just -- what I was just
saying. You
covered Justice Scalia, you were
just telling
me, for more than 20 years. What
is your most
enduring impression of him?
MARCIA COYLE, "The National Law
Journal":
Well, Judy, I think the public
will remember
him most for some of his angry,
bombastic,
funny comments in his opinions.
But I that really sort of
diminishes the man.
When I think of Justice Scalia,
I remember
his quick wit, how in private he
was charming,
almost humble, passionate, as
passionate about
his love of his country as he
was in his opinions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let's talk
about what
the Constitution says, first of
all, about
what the president's
responsibility is after
there is a vacancy on the court.
Is there
any doubt, Marcia, that the
president is supposed
to nominate someone?
MARCIA COYLE: No, there's no
doubt at all.
The Constitution says, the
Appointments Clause,
says that the president shall
appoint, by
and with the advice and consent
of the Senate,
judges to the courts, the
Supreme Court.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And is there any
leeway, any
exceptions through precedent,
through history?
MARCIA COYLE: For the president
not to do
that?
(CROSSTALK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: Exactly.
MARCIA COYLE: Not to my
knowledge, no.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, you
know, from once
the president names someone,
it's the Senate's
responsibility to consider that
nomination.
Any leeway that the Senate has
in terms of
what it's supposed to do?
JOHN STANTON, Washington Bureau
Chief, BuzzFeed:
Well, by precedent, they are
kind of a little
bit -- they are required to do
something at
some point.
That said, there is no rule that
says that
they have to take up the
nomination, they
have to hold hearings. It's
never been done
before. But they could very
easily essentially
wait out the president until
they get the
past the election to the next
year to see
who becomes the new president.
And that's kind of what Mitch
McConnell, the
Senate majority leader, said he
wants to do.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, I was going
to add, who
are the -- we know there are
some key players
in the Senate on this. Who are
they and what
are they saying?
JOHN STANTON: Well, I think the
ones to look
at are McConnell and Grassley
and Ted Cruz
right now, frankly.
I think the three of them. And
they have all
said that they do not want to
have a nominee
come forward. They have asked
the president
not to do it. I think that if
Cruz were to
become a nominee, you could see
a situation
in which he might want to have
hearings. He's
on the Judiciary Committee. This
could prove
to give him some free press and
a platform
in which to attack the
president, attack Democrats
and their policies, and show
he's really tough
on this stuff for his people.
And that could actually work in
his favor.
So, you could in theory see that
kind of sort
of a Machiavellian move, but...
JUDY WOODRUFF: Marcia, so what
is the precedent
for a president in this
situation? What we
have seen in history? Has
presidents made
nominations that were just set
aside by the
Senate?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, first of
all, there is
really no tradition of leaving a
seat open
on the Supreme Court during an
election year.
There have been nominations and
confirmations
during presidential election
years. There
have been confirmations during
presidential
election years, with the
nomination coming,
say, the year before. In fact,
Justice Anthony
Kennedy was confirmed during a
presidential
election year -- he was a
Republican nominee
confirmed by a
Democratic-controlled Senate.
So it's important to know that
this process
can go forward if both sides are
willing to
do it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A lot of
discussion about whether
the president could make a
recess appointment.
What are the options there?
JOHN STANTON: Well, I think the
White House
so far has said they're not
going to do that.
I think that could potentially
change. He
can legally do it. There's no
way to stop
him from doing that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meaning, when
Congress is in
recess, name somebody.
JOHN STANTON: Right.
The way the Congress could sort
of circumvent
that is if they just don't go
into recess
until after basically the --
until next January
right before the inauguration of
the new president.
And they could just have these
pro forma sessions
where they come in every couple
of days.
The Supreme Court said I believe
they have
-- that president can't do it in
a recess
that is longer or shorter than
10 days, I
believe.
MARCIA COYLE: Judy, the court
actually very
recently gave both the president
and Congress
something on this issue.
It said that the president can
nominate during
a recess, but the Senate
determines when it
is in recess. And even though
the Senate may
leave, it can continue to thwart
a recess
appointment by just doing some
nominal business.
So that really leaves it in the
Senate's hands
to decide whether they go
forward.
But there is precedent, as you
asked, Judy,
for a recess appointment to the
Supreme Court.
President Eisenhower nominated
one of the
most influential justices of the
20th century
as a recent appointment, William
Brennan.
He also nominated as a recess
appointment
Potter Stewart. So there is
precedent for
that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Assuming, though,
Marcia, we're
headed for a showdown, a
collision with no
solution in the coming year,
what are the
cases that are at stake this
year? What is
it that the court is going to be
deciding
that may not be decided because
of a lack
of that ninth justice?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, I look at
the cases in
two groups, first, cases that
have already
been argued, and the justices
have sat down
and voted on the outcomes of
those cases.
If Justice Scalia had voted and
was actually
writing an opinion that could
have been announced,
say, even next week, when the
court comes
back to the bench, that is --
his vote, his
opinion is void. The court does
consider those
opinions that have not been
announced by the
court draft opinions.
So those opinions, if he was
doing them, would
be possibly assigned to another
justice to
do. It would be a brand-new
opinion. Those
case right now that we are
looking at include,
for example, the affirmative
action challenge,
the big union challenge. The
second group
of cases that are going to be
argued between
now and April very big cases
involving abortion
clinics, President Obama's
immigration action,
as well as religious nonprofit
challenges
to contraceptive health
insurance.
The court there may have 4-4
splits. It could
reorder re-arguments. Clearly,
an eight-justice
bench is not what this court
would really
like to see go on for any length
of time.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, John, what
about those
Republicans in the Senate who
are saying there
should not, will not be a
confirmation take
place this year? Are they
prepared for that,
for the outcome of these cases
to be in limbo
or to...
JOHN STANTON: I think so. I
think that, as
far as they're concerned, this
is a thing
that they very much care about,
their base
very much cares about it.
And if you look at how,
unfortunately, politics
has gone in this country the
last 10 years,
the members on both sides, but
particularly
in the Republican Party, are
being elected
because they are willing to sort
of stand
up to something, right, stand up
to the president,
stand up to the status quo.
And by saying we are not going
to give this
guy another nomination to the
Supreme Court,
we want to wait until we maybe
hopefully get
our guy in, into the presidency,
that's a
strong signal to their voters.
And I think
a lot of them see that as a
political win
for them and also as an
ideological win.
They don't want to see Obama
nominating anybody,
because they -- and I would
agree with them
-- that he's not going to
nominate a conservative
to the bench to replace Scalia.
And I think
that they feel like that has to
be replaced
by a conservative.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And just quickly,
Marcia, is
there a sense that these cases
that would
be -- if there were to be 4-4
without -- essentially
without a decision, is there a
sense that
one side or another is going to
be predominantly
favored by that, advantaged?
MARCIA COYLE: Well, it depends
on whether
you won or lost in the lower
court.
For the president's immigration
action, if
it was a 4-4 split, that would
be a major
defeat for the president,
because he's challenging
the lower court decision. It
would be a major
defeat for abortion clinics who
are challenging
the Texas restriction.
It would be a major victory for
unions who
won in the lower court on fair
share fees.
So, it really depends. Also, we
need to take
something of a longer look here.
This is -- this
appointment, if it is by a
Democratic president,
is a major -- could be a major
shift.
There are many areas of the law
that could
be affected, not just Citizens
United and
the Second Amendment, but voting
rights, discrimination
cases, many areas.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Enormous
implications.
MARCIA COYLE: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we're just
beginning to
look at them.
Marcia Coyle, John Stanton, we
thank you both.
JOHN STANTON: Thank you.
MARCIA COYLE: It's my pleasure,
Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And now let's
look in depth
at Justice Scalia's legacy, not
what's next,
but what was left behind.
What effect did he have on the
court, how
the Constitution is interpreted
and how cases
are decided?
Jeffrey Brown gets an
assessment, and he starts
with some of Justice Scalia's
own thoughts
and comments in prior
interviews.
JEFFREY BROWN: Over the years,
Antonin Scalia
found occasions to speak
publicly of his judicial
philosophy.
Late in 2012, with the release
of his book
"Reading Law: The Interpretation
of Legal
Text," he said this to Charlie
Rose:
ANTONIN SCALIA, Associate
Justice, U.S. Supreme
Court: The key question is
simply this. Would
the American people have
ratified the document
if it said, the application of
this document
and what it means shall be
whatever the Supreme
Court says it means from age to
age? Nobody
-- nobody would have ratified
that document.
CHARLIE ROSE, Host, "The Charlie
Rose Show":
It's a dead document to you?
ANTONIN SCALIA: I like to say an
enduring
document.
(LAUGHTER)
CHARLIE ROSE: But you don't say
it's a living
document.
ANTONIN SCALIA: It's not living.
It's not
living.
JEFFREY BROWN: In that
conversation and others,
the justice also explained his
thinking on
some pivotal decisions and
dissents, including
the bitterly debated ruling that
decided the
2000 presidential election, Bush
v. Gore.
CHARLIE ROSE: They think it was
a political
decision because the politics of
the country
made you say we got to do this
the way we
did it in order to get this over
with. The
court decided that, in the
interest of the
national -- in the national
interests, they
got to get this over with.
(CROSSTALK)
ANTONIN SCALIA: The remedy for a
case is always
subject to the court's
discretion, and always
depends upon realities on the
ground, not
the law, but what the remedy
will be, whether
you tell them do it immediately,
give them
another two weeks. That's not an
issue of
law. It's an issue of
practicality.
JEFFREY BROWN: Earlier that
year, Justice
Scalia spoke to the "NewsHour"'s
Margaret
Warner, discussing his dissent
in the court's
ruling in favor of President
Obama's health
care law, which cited the
government's power
to tax and impose penalties.
ANTONIN SCALIA: The issue is not
whether Congress
has the power to tax. The issue
is whether,
in this particular law, Congress
was exercising
the power to tax.
And in all of our prior cases,
we said that,
even if you call it a tax, if
it's being imposed
for the violation of a law, it's
a penalty.
And this one wasn't even called
a tax. It
was called a penalty.
JEFFREY BROWN: Justice Scalia,
the child of
Italian immigrants and first
Italian-American
on the court, also spoke of his
heritage,
as here in a 2015 PBS
documentary.
ANTONIN SCALIA: I think for
Italian-Americans,
given what they most abhor,
which is their
identification with crime and
the mafia, I
wouldn't be surprised if they
would be more
proud to have an
Italian-American justice
than to have an Italian-American
president.
JEFFREY BROWN: And now
reflections from three
legal scholars who head research
groups.
Edward Whelan of the
conservative Ethics and
Public Policy Center, he worked
as a law clerk
to Justice Scalia in 1991 and
'92. Elizabeth
Wydra heads the progressive
Constitutional
Accountability Center, and
Jeffrey Rosen of
George Washington University and
the nonpartisan
National Constitution Center in
Philadelphia.
Welcome to all three of you.
I want to start first with his,
Justice Scalia's
influence on jurisprudence, how
cases are
talked about, how they're
decided.
Edward Whelan, you worked with
him. You saw
him in action. This idea of
originalism, how
did he push it? What impact did
it have?
EDWARD WHELAN, Ethics and Public
Policy Center:
Well, he pushed it both as a
judge and as
an academic.
And he pushed it through his
opinions. The
basic principle of textualism is
that a text
has a meaning to be discerned.
That's true
of the Constitution, where
originalism provides,
one seeks to figure out what the
meaning of
a constitutional provision was
at the time
it was adopted, likewise with
statutes.
One looks to decide -- to figure
out what
a meaning of the text is there.
He had tremendous
influence on the Supreme Court
in moving it
away from reliance on
legislative history,
especially the look to
legislative history
first to determine what a
statute means.
And he also, I think, had
considerable influence
on constitutional
interpretation, including
perhaps most markedly in the
Heller Second
Amendment case in 2008.
JEFFREY BROWN: Elizabeth Wydra,
you're on
the other side of Justice Scalia
on most legal
issues, but did he change the
way you think
about the law, the way you argue
it?
ELIZABETH WYDRA, Constitutional
Accountability
Center: Yes, absolutely.
I -- as a progressive, I
disagreed with Justice
Scalia on many, if not most of
the outcomes
of cases. But I absolutely agree
with his
embrace of the Constitution's
text and history.
And my organization, the
Constitutional Accountability
Center, was very much informed
by, or I guess
formed almost in a reaction to
Justice Scalia's
strong embrace of text and
history.
JEFFREY BROWN: Formed in
reaction, right?
ELIZABETH WYDRA: I mean, in
part, certainly.
But as he strongly advocated for
conservative
outcomes based on the text and
history in
the Supreme Court, progressives
like me and
like CAC, my organization, were
inspired to
say no from our perspective.
Let's disagree
on this, but let's talk about
that text and
history.
And when we look at it, we think
it supports
progressive outcomes. But we
were having a
debate with each other. We were
not arguing
past each other.
JEFFREY BROWN: In other words,
you're saying
he may be right about the way of
thinking
about the law, but he's still
wrong on the
outcome.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Right.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you are
arguing on his
terms?
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Well, I think
we're arguing
on the same terms...
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: ... the
Constitution, which
belongs to everyone.
And I think it was a good
example of how Americans
can argue about the meaning of
the Constitution
and really go toe to toe on
whether this is
a progressive document, as I
think, or a conservative
one.
JEFFREY BROWN: Jeffrey Rosen,
what would you
add to this? This is also a
justice who famously,
"I'm an originalist and a
textualist, not
a nut." Right?
Explain what he meant by that?
JEFFREY ROSEN, Law Professor,
George Washington
University: He meant that in a
good sense.
He was talking about his friend
Justice Thomas,
and he said, "Unlike Justice
Thomas, I wouldn't
overturn every case that I think
is inconsistent
with original understanding,
because I'm not
a nut."
And he meant that very
affectionately. But
despite that pragmatism, the
fact that progressive
organizations like the wonderful
Constitutional
Accountability Center were
founded that text
in history could lead to
progressive, as well
as conservative results is a
sign of Scalia's
incredible influence.
He must be counted one of the
most influential
and significant justices of the
20th century,
because he changed the terms of
constitutional
debate. He forced progressives
to make those
arguments and to try to beat him
at his own
game.
Now, sometimes, progressives
argue Justice
Scalia was an inconsistent
originalist, ignoring
the text and history in case
like Brown vs.
Board of Education, which is
hard to justify
on originalist grounds. Scalia's
response
was essentially, no theory is
perfect. I may
not be able to justify
everything, but basically
I'm pretty good.
But it's really important to
note, too, the
series of cases where Scalia's
preferences
diverged from his constitutional
preferences,
flag burning, the rights of
criminal defendants,
the right to confront your
accusers, the independent
counsel law. These are all cases
that favored
liberal results because Scalia
felt the Constitution
compelled it.
And for distinguishing policy
arguments and
constitutional arguments, I
think he deserves
great respect.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so we
asked all
three of you to come up, to
think about a
key case and a few lines that
help illustrate
his thinking.
Let me start with you, Ed, Ed
Whelan.
You chose something from the
famous Casey
case, the Planned Parenthood vs.
Casey. So,
the lines are, "By foreclosing
all democratic
outlet for the deep passions
this issue arouses,
by banishing the issue from the
political
forum that gives all
participants, even the
losers, the satisfaction of a
fair hearing
and an honest fight, by
continuing the imposition
of a rigid national rule,
instead of allowing
for regional differences, the
court merely
prolongs and intensifies the
anguish."
Why did you pick those lines?
EDWARD WHELAN: Well, I think
that passage
captures Justice Scalia's belief
that so many
issues that other people want to
constitutionalize
are really left to the political
processes
to decide one way or the other.
People often caricature Justice
Scalia as
a conservative, when in fact on
a whole host
of issues, whether it's
abortion, the death
penalty, same-sex marriage, his
position is
not that the Constitution
entrenches his own
views, but rather that it leaves
the matter
to democratic processes.
It's his ultimate humility about
the judicial
role and the sharp line drawn
between the
role of the courts and the role
of the elected
branches.
JEFFREY BROWN: And you say that
running through
all his decisions and dissents?
EDWARD WHELAN: That's certainly
a basic theme.
Obviously, there are plenty of
times when
he saw that there were popular
enactments
that violated the Constitution.
The key challenge, I think, of
any justice
is to discern the line between
what the Constitution
allows and what it forbids and
to avoid imposing
one's own policy preferences.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right,
Elizabeth Wydra,
now, you picked one, a quote
from a case,
Crawford v. Washington.
And it's -- this is writing the
opinion for
the court -- "Dispensing with
confrontation
because testimony is obviously
reliable is
akin to dispensing with a jury
trial because
the defendant is obviously
guilty. This is
not what the Sixth Amendment
prescribes. "
Why that? What does that tell
you about his
thinking?
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Well, Justice
Scalia, as
I mentioned earlier, was a
conservative justice,
but there were areas in which
progressives
and conservatives could agree
with his jurisprudence.
And criminal procedure and
criminal law were
some of those areas. And that
case shows that,
in some cases, he was quite the
friend to
criminal defendants and was very
strong on
ensuring that jury protections
to criminal
defendants were afforded.
And then there were other cases,
for example,
on the Fourth Amendment search
and seizure
context, where he struck down
law enforcement
techniques that violated the
privacy and the
founders' original idea that
your person,
papers and effects should be
kept private.
So, he isn't generally thought
of as a friend
to the less powerful -- and I
think in most
cases he wasn't -- but certainly
in the criminal
defense area, he was from time
to time in
very important ways. And I think
that's a
big part of his legacy.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right.
And, Jeffrey Rosen, you're from
a dissent
in the Dickerson case.
And Scalia's words were:
"Today's judgment
converts Miranda from a
milestone of judicial
overreaching into the very
Cheops Pyramid
or perhaps the Sphinx would be a
better analogue
of judicial arrogance."
Now, you can parse the legal
part, but I suspect
you picked it because of the --
it shows a
little bit of his colorful
language and thinking,
right?
JEFFREY ROSEN: Well, it's
spectacular, and
also because it taught me to
pronounce it.
I also thought it was Cheops
Pyramid. But
it's Cheops' Pyramid.
JEFFREY BROWN: Cheops.
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY ROSEN: I learned that
from looking
it up.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, I will tell
you, I was
sure that that was a reference
to the Great
Pyramid. And I was right.
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY ROSEN: Well, absolutely.
No, this
was a smaller one that he was
really talking
about.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
JEFFREY ROSEN: No, but the fact
that he made
you rush happily to the
dictionary to find
out these words was a sign of
how much he
taught us and made
constitutional law exciting.
I also loved his great line,
"The court has
mistaken a Kulturkampf for a fit
of spite."
I didn't know what Kulturkampf
was either.
And I found out after looking at
Google that
was the culture war between
Bismarck and the
Catholic Church in the 19th
century. That
was a gay rights case.
It was just he was a deeply
literate man who
had such a joy in writing, was
such a beautiful
writer, the greatest since
Holmes and Robert
Jackson. And I think the fact
that his aphorisms
are so memorable made him the
influential
justice that he was.
JEFFREY BROWN: Very briefly, did
he have an
impact on the law?
EDWARD WHELAN: OH, absolutely.
As Jeff has mentioned, he really
transformed
the approach that the court has
taken and
has forced his opponents to
define themselves
against him. To be sure, some of
his greatest
opinions are dissents. I would
emphasize in
his second term on the court his
solo dissent
in the independent counsel case,
Morrison
v. Olson, which also has some
beautiful passages.
Over the years, I think everyone
has recognized
the wisdom of that solo dissent.
And I think,
likewise, when they get past the
heated controversies
of the moment, when people read
so many of
his other dissents, they will
recognize the
deep wisdom there. And law
students will read
his opinions as long as anyone
reads Supreme
Court cases.
JEFFREY BROWN: And I will ask
you for a brief
last word on that, too.
He was also, though, on the
losing side more
recently of many key issues of
the day.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Absolutely.
So, his legacy will be his focus
on the text
and history of Constitution, but
there were
many cases in which progressives
showed that
the text and history of the
Constitution supported
progressive outcomes, like in
the marriage
equality cases, where he simply
is on the
wrong side of history there, in
my opinion.
JEFFREY BROWN: Elizabeth Wydra,
Ed Whelan
and Jeffrey Rosen, thank you,
all three, very
much.
EDWARD WHELAN: Thank you.
ELIZABETH WYDRA: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, less than 48
hours after
the death of Supreme Court
Justice Antonin
Scalia, his vacant seat was
already an issue
on the campaign trail.
Today, Republican candidates
said President
Obama shouldn't be the person to
chose the
next Supreme Court justice,
while former Secretary
of State Hillary Clinton
insisted Scalia's
seat must be filled immediately.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
If the Republicans in the Senate
act as if
though have no responsibility to
work with
the president to fill that
vacant position
because they want to wait to see
how the election
comes out, the people of this
country should
send a very clear message. That
is not the
way our Constitution works. You
have a duty.
We expect you to fulfill it.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
I can tell you, if Hillary
Clinton or Bernie
Sanders wins, they are not going
to nominate
people that look or act or
behave or believe
any way like Justice Scalia.
That's not what
they're going to nominate. They
are going
to nominate people that want to
expand the
Constitution in a way that goes
well beyond
its original meaning. And so we
can't afford
that as a country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And to dissect
all that, we
turn to Politics Monday with
Tamara Keith
of NPR and Amy Walter of The
Cook Political
Report.
Tamara, how does this change the
presidential
race?
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: The stakes
were already very high for this
presidential
race. And everyone agreed on
that.
And candidates were already
talking about
the Supreme Court. But it was in
the abstract.
It was the next president could
name some
Supreme Court justices. Well,
now it's not
abstract anymore, it's very
real. And once
President Obama nominates
someone, there will
even be a face for this fight.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How do you see
it, Amy?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: I absolutely
agree with that, and I also
recognize that
it is just one piece of what we
know is going
to be a very big, complicated
election coming
up.
I still think issues like the
economy and
what's happening in Syria, those
are events
that are really going to drive
this election,
the role of America in the
world. But this
is going to be an important sort
of milestone
for these candidates, again, as
a way, especially
in the primaries, to rev up
their base.
This is right now about taking
advantage of
the very polarized partisan
environment for
Democrats to get their side
excited about
this, Republicans to get their
side excited,
especially because the
controversial issues
in front of the Supreme Court
today include
abortion, labor rights,
immigration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All those issues
that are right
-- that are before this very
court.
AMY WALTER: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara, is one
side advantaged
more than the other, or is it
just about the
same?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, typically,
the Supreme
Court has motivated
conservatives more, people
who are worried about gun rights
and concerned
about abortion.
But, right now, as Amy said,
there are all
of these things that are part of
President
Obama's agenda, that -- part of
his legacy
that are before the Supreme
Court, now a 4-4
Supreme Court. And so it is
possible that
this could motivate Democrats in
a way that
they haven't always been
motivated before.
Another thing, President Obama
could nominate
an African-American, or an
Asian-American,
and that could add to the
identity politics
and motivate Democratic voters
who see themselves
in that nominee.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What would you
add? Amy, one
side or another get potentially
-- get more
of a boost from this?
AMY WALTER: Get more of a bump
out of this?
Look, we have only seen in the
Republican
debate the other night that a
Supreme Court
justice who was named by a
Republican was
controversial in John Roberts,
right, where
there is debate over whether he
was conservative
enough.
This issue certainly resonating
with Republicans.
And, again, I think it just
still speaks to
the audience that all of these
candidates
are speaking to, which is very
narrow, very
polarized, very partisan.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Very quickly,
there's already
some talk about the Republican
senators who
are saying they won't -- they
don't want to
see anybody confirmed. Any risk
for them,
Amy?
AMY WALTER: Democrats are hoping
the risk
is that these -- most of these
senators are
in swing states that are up in
2016, New Hampshire,
Ohio, Pennsylvania.
They have all come out, agreed
with Senator
Mitch McConnell that the
president shouldn't
nominate somebody, this should
go to the next
president. The Democrats are
thinking this
is going to turn off swing
voters in these
states.
But, quite frankly, they have a
balancing
act here. One is, they're
worried about a
primary, so they can't upset
their conservative
base. And, number two, I don't
know that this
is going to be an issue that is
going to be
front and center burning in the
fall of 2016
as it is at this moment.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meantime, Tamara,
you have
of course the South Carolina
primary coming
up this Saturday. The Republican
race has
gotten even more caustic, if
that was possible
since...
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to show
everybody right
now Donald Trump, how he has
reacted to a
TV spot that Ted Cruz has
started to run.
But, first, let's see the TV
spot itself.
NARRATOR: Life, marriage,
religious liberty,
the Second Amendment, we're just
one Supreme
Court justice away from losing
them all.
QUESTION: Would President Trump
ban partial-birth
abortions?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
Well, look, I'm very pro-
choice.
QUESTION: But you wouldn't ban
it?
DONALD TRUMP: No.
QUESTION: Or ban partial-birth
abortion?
DONALD TRUMP: No, I would -- I
am pro-choice
in every respect.
NARRATOR: We cannot trust Donald
Trump with
these serious decisions.
DONALD TRUMP: I think he's a
very unstable
guy.
And I must tell you one thing
about Ted Cruz
that I can say, only to a minor
extent by
comparison for the other
politicians. I haven't
been doing this long. I have
been in it since
June 16. But I will tell you, I
have never,
ever met a person that lies more
than Ted
Cruz.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Tamara, is
this squabble,
this heightened squabble between
Trump and
Cruz now the main act in the
Republican side,
or just one of several?
TAMARA KEITH: Oh, it's one of
several.
And it is not going anywhere.
Ted Cruz responded
to Donald Trump, saying, you
can't just say
liar, liar, pants on fire, and
not respond
to the direct charges. And it
goes on and
on and on. Trump is also going
after Jeb Bush.
He's still hitting George W.
Bush on the Iraq
War.
And it's kind of remarkable.
This is a Republican
primary. And there is a
candidate in the Republican
primary who is very openly
criticizing the
last Republican president. And
it is unclear
whether that is even a problem.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Amy, George
W. Bush, for
the first time, is hitting the
trail tonight
right now in South Carolina for
his brother.
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: That's right.
The Bush name obviously is as
much of an albatross
for Jeb Bush than it is benefit.
And you could
see in his polling the challenge
for Jeb Bush
in figuring out what to do with
that name,
right, because so many people
saying, even
Republicans, we don't want a
dynasty candidate.
But that doesn't mean they don't
like George
W. Bush. And, in fact, with
South Carolina,
what Jeb Bush is hoping is to
focus on the
fact this is a very
military-heavy state.
This is a very conservative
state. This is
a state that gave his brother a
very important
victory in 2000.
But I think, to the point about
the Iraq War,
it's not also clear that this
division isn't
important within the Republican
primary. Remember,
this is the lane that Rand Paul
was in for
a while, a libertarian sort of
point of view
that said the Republican Party
and neoconservatives
got ahead of themselves on this
war and on
our foreign policy in general.
So, there is a segment of the
Republican electorate
that does think that the Iraq
War was actually
a mistake and don't want to see
that replicated.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just a little
more than a minute.
We don't want to neglect the
Democrats.
The focus for them, Tamara, is
Nevada. They
have got the causes coming up,
Democratic
caucuses, this weekend. It seems
to be tightening
there, Hillary Clinton, Bernie
Sanders both
focusing on Nevada. What does it
look like?
TAMARA KEITH: Yes. This was
supposed to be
the beginning of Hillary
Clinton's firewall.
It's not so clear that it is the
beginning
of the firewall anymore.
It's hard to poll in Nevada, but
the sense
is, the way she's running that
campaign now,
she stayed an extra day. There
is a sense
that this is close. And her
campaign has been
downplaying expectations.
Meanwhile, Sanders'
campaign shipped in a bunch of
people from
Iowa and New Hampshire, and
they're playing
up expectations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Looks like more
pressure on
her.
AMY WALTER: More pressure on
her, which is
why we're going to hear a lot
more from her
about South Carolina, which will
be in another
week from now, than we are on
Nevada.
TAMARA KEITH: And then she goes
to Texas the
night of the Nevada caucuses.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Because then we
get into the
bigger states.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes.
AMY WALTER: Correct, and the
African-American
votes, which is what she is
really counting
on to be that firewall. And
that's in South
Carolina.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But she would
like to have
a win.
AMY WALTER: Oh, yes, she would.
TAMARA KEITH: Oh, yes, like a
resounding one,
instead of a near tie.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tamara Keith, Amy
Walter, watching
it all, thank you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We return now to
Syria, and
the series of attacks that
killed dozens in
the country's north.
Late today, the Turkish foreign
minister called
the strike against a hospital,
allegedly by
Russian forces, -- quote -- "an
obvious war
crime," and he threatened
serious consequences
if the Russian air campaign
doesn't stop.
William Brangham takes the story
from there.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Joining me now
to discuss
today's attacks in Northern
Syria, and the
state of the larger war there,
is New York
Times Beirut bureau chief Anne
Barnard.
Anne, thanks for being here.
So, we have seen these recent
attacks against
medical facilities and
hospitals. Allegedly,
these are by the Russians. What
can you tell
us? What's going on there?
ANNE BARNARD, Beirut Bureau
Chief, The New
York Times: Well, this has
actually been something
of a pattern, even by the Syrian
government.
There have been a pattern of
attacks against
hospitals and schools. And since
the Russian
airstrikes began, it has
continued with the
Russian airstrikes as well. It
seems that
there may be a strategy of
trying to depopulate
areas, just areas that are not
likely to come
back into the government fold.
It seems to
be preferable from their point
of view to
either drive those people away
or make the
areas difficult to live in.
We saw this in the city of Homs,
when the
center of the city was occupied
for a long
time by insurgents. And,
finally, the solution
was to evacuate them, and still
much of the
city is not really inhabited.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Now, amidst
all of this
bombing, we have been seeing
Kurdish forces
coming in and sort of coming in
behind the
bombing and retaking some of the
space created
there. Why is that important?
ANNE BARNARD: First of all, it
shows the complicated
battlefield in Northern Aleppo,
where we're
seeing that the enemy of my
enemy is often
also my enemy.
This means there are groups
which are backed
by the Americans who are
actually fighting
each other, and Turkey, who is
an American
ally and a NATO member, is
getting increasingly,
vociferously angry at the
Kurdish advances.
The Turks consider the Kurds to
be the biggest
threat to them because of their
history of
struggles with their own Kurdish
population.
And so to see Kurdish militias
taking over
land from Turkish-backed
insurgents is a new
and very fast-moving development
in this battle.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: So the Kurds
are sort of
using this opportunistically, to
try to take
back what they think of as some
of their ancestral
homeland?
ANNE BARNARD: Well, the main
Kurdish areas
are separated by this area which
is being
fought over right now.
So, this is not really a Kurdish
area. The
Kurds are to the west and to the
east of it.
So, the Kurdish aim seems to be
to try to
connect the two areas, although
they would
also have to take an even larger
area which
is now controlled by Islamic
State.
But they have been able to move
surprisingly
quickly, taking advantage of the
Russian strikes,
which has prompted the Syrian,
Arab and Turkmen
rebels to say that they must be
working with
the Russians.
The Russians have backed the
Kurds politically,
trying to get them a bigger seat
at the table
in peace negotiations. And,
right now, you
have a scenario where both the
Russians and
the Americans, nominally on
opposite sides
of this fight, are both backing
Kurdish militias
against ISIS to one degree and
another.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: I understand
we are supposed
to be having a cease-fire
beginning very soon,
and yet things seem to just be
getting more
and more violent as we get close
to that deadline.
ANNE BARNARD: Yes.
To some extent, that is
something to be expected.
Ahead of any peace negotiations
or cease-fire,
parties on the ground try to
maximize their
advantage and their position.
But, in the
case, it seems like something
more, the case
where the balance of power is
pretty lopsided.
And it's as if the Russians and
the Syrian
government are trying to sprint
to victory,
at least in this particular
theater of the
battle. And why wouldn't they if
they see
an opportunity to do that?
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All right,
Anne Barnard
of The New York Times, thank you
so much.
ANNE BARNARD: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The neighborhoods
where people
live and work often reflect how
healthy they
are.
Nowhere is that more true than
in West Baltimore,
where violence, food deserts,
and homes filled
with mold, lead paint and toxic
levels of
stress translate to drastically
lower life
expectancies than almost
anywhere else in
the state of Maryland.
That history has also led to a
frayed trust
with the medical establishment
there, one
that hospitals are working to
restore.
Special correspondent Sarah
Varney has our
report from Baltimore. It was
produced in
collaboration with our partner
Kaiser Health
News.
SARAH VARNEY: The street
protests that erupted
in West Baltimore after
25-year-old Freddie
Gray died while in police
custody brought
attention to the staggering
poverty and violence
in the city's impoverished
neighborhoods.
In Sandtown-Winchester, where
Gray lived,
the dismal health and low life
expectancy
rivals some of the world's
poorest countries.
That's especially striking in a
city world-renowned
for its prestigious medical
schools and public
health research.
Men and women in Sandtown live,
on average,
just 69 years, a decade below
the rest of
the country. Health officials
say infants
here die at almost twice the
national average.
And adults are felled by heart
disease, prostate
cancer and AIDS with shocking
frequency.
Pastor Derrick DeWitt of First
Mount Calvary
Baptist Church in Sandtown prays
for an end
to his neighborhood's ill
health, but preaches
self-reliance.
REV. DERRICK DEWITT, First Mount
Calvary Baptist
Church: You have to make sure
that you are
getting the health care that you
need. Things
are not equal, and they probably
will never
be equal.
SARAH VARNEY: Pastor DeWitt,
like many residents
here, is deeply distrustful of
Baltimore's
hospitals. He learned to be wary
of nearby
Bon Secours Hospital early on
from his grandmother,
who was a member of the church
he now leads.
REV. DERRICK DEWITT: All of our
family who
went to Bon Secours never came
out of Bon
Secours. So, she kind of
instilled in us,
"Never take me there. If I ever
have to go
to the hospital, never take me
there." And
that attitude still exists
today.
SARAH VARNEY: But in an
emergency, Bon Secours
is one of the closest hospitals
to Sandtown-Winchester.
REV. DERRICK DEWITT: My
directive is, if you
have to put me in the car, take
me to a hospital
other than Bon Secours, because
the nickname
for Bon Secours, do you know
what that is?
SARAH VARNEY: Tell me.
REV. DERRICK DEWITT: "Bon
se-killer."
SARAH VARNEY: Bon Secours is
working mightily
to change that reputation, but
the distrust
goes beyond just one hospital.
Stories dating
back to the 1800s that so-called
night doctors
kidnapped black children for
medical experiments
are vividly remembered.
Experimentation was, in fact,
happening to
black Americans nationwide. At
Johns Hopkins,
researchers famously took tissue
cells from
Henrietta Lacks, a black cancer
patient, without
permission in 1951.
EDDIE REAVES, Baltimore
Resident: To me, they
have always been like that.
Never did like
Johns Hopkins.
SARAH VARNEY: Eddie Reaves, age
64, is a member
of Pastor DeWitt's church. His
partner died
two years ago after doctors at
Johns Hopkins
operated on her heart.
EDDIE REAVES: From day one,
before she even
went in, I never liked them,
because that's
all they do is experiment, to
me, on people.
SARAH VARNEY: Reaves is equally
skeptical
of other Baltimore hospitals. He
spent much
of his life addicted to drugs,
and when his
diabetes and asthma spiraled out
of control,
he would end up in the E.R.
But even after he got off drugs
and signed
up for health insurance, Reaves
found the
medical system was a maze of
doctors who charged
too much and didn't listen to
him.
EDDIE REAVES: When the doctor
give me something
that give me side effect, I
don't take my
medication. He said, why are you
not taking
it? I said, because it give me
side effects.
And, sometimes, they think it's
a big joke,
but I don't take nothing that
give me side
effects.
SARAH VARNEY: Dr. Samuel Ross,
the CEO of
Bon Secours, is well aware of
his hospital's
reputation in the neighborhood,
and what it's
going to take to earn people's
trust.
DR. SAMUEL ROSS, CEO, Bon
Secours Hospital:
You often find out that a lot is
urban myth.
But we also have to sit down and
say, well,
tell me why you feel that way?
And then, let
me show you some things that may
cause you
to feel a different way.
SARAH VARNEY: Nearby, at the
University of
Maryland, Baltimore, president
Dr. Jay Perman
says repairing the relationship
with black
Baltimoreans will take a long
time.
DR. JAY PERMAN, President,
University of Maryland,
Baltimore: I think there's still
too much
of a perception that we
experiment. Now, that
is not the case. Care is
rigorously delivered
with consent from the patient
always. But
it takes a long time, I think,
for people
to understand that the days of
hidden experimentation
are over.
SARAH VARNEY: Making that case
is not only
a moral imperative, but now a
financial one.
While Freddie Gray's death and
the street
protests have called attention
to the health
problems in Baltimore's poorest
neighborhoods,
sweeping changes to the health
care system
have forced hospitals to go
after their root
cause. Because of the Affordable
Care Act
and a change to the way Maryland
pays for
medical care, health
professionals are being
pushed to look more closely at
the details
of their patients' lives.
Public health researchers say
it's when patients
are in their neighborhoods, in
crowded homes
or decaying public schools, with
no grocery
stores or reliable buses that
health problems
fester.
DR. JAY PERMAN: In the past, we
have always
thought about making correct
diagnoses, and
preparing the right prescription
or therapeutic
plan, and then sending the
patient out.
And I think it's the fact that
we didn't focus
-- we in general in the American
health care
system didn't focus on what
happens to the
patient when they're not
directly in our care
and in front of us.
SARAH VARNEY: So, hospitals are
aiming to
fix the everyday problems that
are making
their patients sick. And there's
renewed urgency.
Hospitals can now face financial
consequences
from the federal government and
the state
of Maryland for failing to
prevent their patients
from returning to the E.R. for
avoidable problems.
The Maryland legislature has
pressed for changes
too. A 2012 law established five
health enterprise
zones which offer tax credits
and grants to
bring health care resources to
poor communities.
Driving that effort are groups
like the Coordinating
Center, which are paid by the
health enterprise
zones to visit high-risk
patients, like Toni
Settles, just after they leave
Bon Secours,
the University of Maryland and
other Baltimore
hospitals. Advocates go into
patients' homes
to figure out how to keep their
recovery on
track.
JENN SULIN-STAIR, Coordinating
Center: Will
you need help with planning
finances to afford
those things?
SARAH VARNEY: Jenn Sulin-Stair
is part coach,
part confidant, part fixer who
first had to
earn Settles' trust.
TONI SETTLES, Baltimore
Resident: It wasn't
a whole lot of talk. She put
action to it,
you know, and set up
appointments for me and
then set up dates. And that's
the difference.
I never had nobody one on one,
no indeed.
They will say one thing, do
another.
SARAH VARNEY: The health
enterprise zones
pay for this kind of help for
two months.
Senior vice president Carol
Marsiglia says,
without an intervention, half of
high-risk
patients return to the hospital
within 12
days. Although mental illness
and substance
abuse can play a big role,
Marsiglia says
the grinding realities of
poverty often derail
recovery, a broken wheelchair or
no money
to fill a prescription or get a
needed oxygen
tank.
CAROL MARSIGLIA, Coordinating
Center: So,
we do work to try to find some
financial resources,
get that co-pay paid, so that
the person can
get the oxygen they need.
Otherwise, they
may likely be back in the
hospital early the
next week.
SARAH VARNEY: But for many, the
obstacles
just keep on coming. David Kelly
Jr., an outreach
worker from LIGHT Health and
Wellness, a West
Baltimore community center, has
been counseling
Anthony Chase for years. The two
drive to
a mall parking lot to have a
private and frank
conversation about keeping
Chase's HIV and
bipolar disorder under control.
MAN: I'm working on myself right
now. I'm
working on all of me.
DAVID KELLY JR., LIGHT Health
and Wellness:
Well, a big part of that is
going to be definitely
maintaining your treatment
adherence, I think.
If you use that as a foundation
and build
from that, you know, everything
else sort
of...
MAN: Yes, falls in place.
SARAH VARNEY: The hospitals,
too, have renewed
their focus on West Baltimore. A
well-respected
homeless clinic recently opened
up inside
Bon Secours, and the hospital is
converting
a church near Sandtown into a
clinic that
will offer primary care, mental
health counseling
and social services.
WOMAN: First step, pour the milk
into a bag,
and then you measure the
vanilla.
SARAH VARNEY: And the University
of Maryland,
Baltimore, is partnering with
public schools
to inspire young
African-Americans to become
health care professionals, and
training current
medical students to delve more
deeply into
the social conditions that
perpetuate poor
health.
At Pastor DeWitt's church, Johns
Hopkins recently
held focus groups to ask
residents why they
used the emergency room instead
of going to
a doctor's office. But it's not
clear if these
intensive efforts will be
sustained. Funding
for the health enterprise zones
expires next
year.
And many here are asking how far
hospitals
can go, even when threatened
with financial
penalties to fix toxic
neighborhoods.
For his part, Reaves remains
unconvinced that
all the attention the protests
brought to
his neighborhood over this last
year will
do much good.
EDDIE REAVES: Things will get
worser and worser
to me, but you got to keep on
living, though,
do what you got to do.
SARAH VARNEY: It's a fatalism
hard-earned.
For the "PBS NewsHour" and
Kaiser Health News,
I'm Sarah Varney in Baltimore.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a postscript
to our report:
Johns Hopkins officials say they
are committed
to the Baltimore community and
improving the
relationship.
That includes a series of
community events
on issues about the Henrietta
Lacks story,
including a program and
scholarship for high
school students and a symposium
that attracts
over 1,000 people from the
community. The
events are planned in
cooperation with the
Lacks family and they address
the ethical
issues related to biomedical
research.
Finally tonight, we close with
an unusual
work of art about Antonin
Scalia.
Last year, the Arena Stage
theater here in
Washington put on a production
of "The Originalist,"
a play that offered a portrait
of Scalia.
At the time, Jeffrey Brown
profiled that show
and what it conveyed about the
man.
Here's an excerpt.
EDWARD GERO, "The Originalist":
The court
has been my theater, and I have
the costumes.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the new play
"The Originalist,"
the first thing you notice about
actor Edward
Gero is his striking physical
resemblance
to the character he's playing,
the real-life
Supreme Court Justice Antonin
Scalia.
EDWARD GERO: I tell people what
they don't
want to hear. That's also what
makes me a
monster. That's how half the
country see me,
aggressive, combative, law and
order conservative.
Other half sees me as a hero,
aggressive,
combative, law and order
conservative. Which
am I?
JEFFREY BROWN: As it happens,
both the justice
and the actor trace their
heritage to nearby
villages in Southern Italy. Both
are from
New Jersey, raised in Catholic
homes and schools.
To really be Scalia, all Gero
had to do was
take a short ride over to the
Supreme Court,
to watch the justice in action
to get the
mannerisms down.
EDWARD GERO: He sort of closes
his eyes a
little bit and heightens his
sense of listening.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, show
me. Show me.
EDWARD GERO: Well, you know, he
will -- he
will listen, and then when he
hears something,
then he will pounce, right? So
he sort of
gathers up and searching for the
right word
or for the logic of the
argument. Then, once
he grabs onto it, he will launch
and have
a question.
JEFFREY BROWN: Antonin Scalia,
of course,
is the famously combative leader
of the court's
conservative wing, and currently
its longest-serving
member.
A lover of opera, which the play
uses to great
effect, and operatic himself in
both charm
and bluster, he's an
intellectual powerhouse.
EDWARD GERO: Look, I'm not an
ideologue. I
am an originalist.
JEFFREY BROWN: And a firm
proponent that judges
should look only to the original
text and
meaning of the Constitution.
EDWARD GERO: To interpret the
Constitution
as it is written and as it was
understood
when the authors crafted the
original document.
It's as important as that. Now,
the other
side of the argument is obvious
and wrong.
The Constitution is a living
document. It
must change with the times.
Nonsense. Society
changes. Fashion changes. The
Constitution
stands.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You can watch
Jeff's full story
from last year on that play on
our Web site
at PBS.org/NewsHour.
Also, on the "NewsHour" online
right now:
How many people does it take to
keep a major
conspiracy under wraps? While
some believe
that the Apollo 11 moon landing
was staged,
a new mathematical equation
calculates that
hundreds of thousands of people
would have
to be really good at keeping
secrets for that
theory to be true.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Tuesday, Malcolm Brabant
reports on the
recent rise of anti-Semitism in
Europe.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.